[MUSIC]
Our company's mission is to
educate the world.
We believe that education is the great
equalizer and that many of
the world's problems
could be made a lot better if more people
had access to education, and that
includes problems like unemployment,
like hunger, even
extremism, and if you educate
people you open doors for them,
to make life better for
themselves, for their families,
and for the communities.
For me this project started about four
years ago when a group of us
who had been award-winning faculty were
invited by John Bravman who was then the
Vice Provost for undergraduate
education at Stanford
and he invited us to talk about how
to open up more room in the
curriculum for a meaningful engagement
between faculty and students.
And there were a bunch of us in the room
and ideas were thrown around.
Nothing particularly gelled.
And then two months later I
happened to be at
a Google Faculty Summit, listening
to a talk about YouTube.
And all of a sudden it came to me that
instead of lecturing in the classroom,
the same lecture that I'd been
giving for fifteen years,
telling the same jokes
at the same time,
maybe we could take that, and preserve it,
and in fact make it available to students
in a much more engaging format that has
more interaction than you get
in a classroom.
So I went to, back to John Bravman and he
got very enthusiastic and
he took me to see President John Hennessey
of Stanford, who also was very excited
and in fact supported this project with a
generous seed grant in order to
try and build up the technology as well as
the pedagogy for making this happen.
And so we piloted this in my class
and developed some of the
ideas that ended up making their way into
Coursera, including the short video
chunks, the integration of
assessments into
the video stream, the significant
number of
autograded assessments that
allow the students
to test their knowledge of the material.
And, and so that was part of the project.
And then in parallel to that,
my colleague and co-founder
Andrew Ng was actually working on a
different trajectory, which is let's
teach the world, and ended up
developing pieces of the design
and technology and pedagogy independently
in the context of this other project.
And at some point we realized that the
projects were remarkably well
aligned because the same ideas, the same
designs, the same contents could
be used for both improving the quality of
the instruction for our
on-campus students and for offering a
meaningful course experience
for the world.
And so that realization culminated
in the fall of 2011
with the three large Stanford classes
that Stanford opened to the world,
the machine learning class,
the database class, and the AI class.
And each of those classes
had an enrollment of
100,000 students or more,
which was just
a completely mind-blowing
experience because no one
expected that to have this
level of uptake.
And so in the fall, after we
saw that this was
happening, we realized that we
needed to do something with this.
We needed to build up on this success
and do something even bigger
and more impactful.
And it seemed clear that in
order to let this have as,
the largest impact that
it could possibly have in
terms of teaching all these people
around the world who
would never have access to this
kind of high-quality education,
we needed to make this available not just
to Stanford, but to a number
of top institutions who could offer their
great content to all of these people.
And so that's when we decided to
spin this out of Stanford
and make this, build up this platform that
would provide this great
experience for students as well as a good
experience for faculty to
effectively offer these large online
classes that they could open to the world.
>> But were you preparing for the fall of
2011 for like  a year, or,
or did you just?
>> No.
It was kind of of a bit of a
last-minute decision
to try out these classes
in this format.
And I don't think anyone anticipated the
extent to which this would take
off and have this huge impact, and
uptake in the world.
>> So, really you kind of were laying down
a lot of the early code in the fall.
>> Yeah.
>> [LAUGH]
>> So, what happened was in
I think August is when
the decision was made, and we
realized that the platforms that
we had been using inside Stanford
were just not up to
the task of being available, robustly, to
hundreds of thousands of students.
Or even tens of thousands, which is what we
thought we would have at that point.
And so we started to build up
a platform from scratch
using a group of graduate students and
three undergraduates, just unbelievably
talented individuals, who ended up also
being the core group that
would form the engineering team of
Coursera down the line.
One of the things that we tried to
build into this project from the
very beginning are opportunities
for interaction of the students
with the material, as
well as interaction of the students
with their peers.
And there's different ways
in which that happens.
In terms of interaction with
the material, we do
a lot of active exercises where
the system basically checks
the student's work so that the
student is told whether
he or she are actually getting the
material or not.
And it's important that those
tests, those, those
assessments, if you will,
are deep and meaningful.
And on the other hand, they also need to
be graded at scale, because when you have
a hundred thousand students
you can't have a TA or
an instructor in the loop
manually checking papers.
And so we have all sorts of different
things that we can check at scale.
You know, multiple choice is the obvious
one, but one can also check
numerical answers.
One can check, check math.
One can autograde programming
assignments, and by programming
assignments that just don't mean
just code for computer sciences.
An Excel spreadsheet is a programming
assignment in effect too, and you
can now grade a financial model or a
marketing model as well.
But none of those are the kinds of
solutions that would allow us to support
all of the classes that we would like,
specifically when you want
classes that require
something that's more critical
thinking where a
student would need to write down
some argument
for one thing versus another
or discuss the
arguments or the causal chain
behind some historical event,
or do a, a detailed analysis of a
legal case or something.
You cannot do that using
autograding right now.
Maybe if, maybe down the line, artificial
intelligence will solve that problem
for us, but I'm not counting on it
in the near future.
And so how do you do that?
And that's where, again, the social
component of the platform,
which is the other big piece of it,
has come to our help
because we ended up putting
in place a peer-grading
pipeline where students can robustly and
reproducibly grade each other's work.
And it turns out that not only that
is an effective way of
grading at scale, it's also a valuable
learning experience for the students,
and studies have
not, not by us, but by educational
researchers, have shown that peer
rating teaches the students
something, as well
as provides a scalable solution
to grading.
One of the things that we try
to build in is
an opportunity for students to interact
with each other in meaningful ways.
And have one student help each other
through the hard bits and
have the students work together to achieve
a better outcome for everyone.
And so, for example, we had a question
and answer forum where
students really were the primary ones
responsible for answering
each other's questions.
And there was a real community built up
around that where students felt
incredibly motivated to
help each other and answer
each other's questions
to the point that in the fall quarter of
2011, the median response time
for a question
posted on the forum was 22 minutes, which
is not a level of service that
I, as an instructor, have ever
offered my students.
But because there was such a broad
worldwide community of students
all working together,
there was, even if you were
doing something
at 3 o'clock in the morning,
chances are that
somewhere around the world,
there would be somebody
who was awake and thinking about
the same problem.
And so that social community was really an
essential part, I think, of
the student's experience.
And critical to the engagement
and retention
of students in the, in the course.
>> I just imagine these people
living in Zurich
getting together in a coffee shop
and as a study group.
So what, what were some of your
experiences,
or others' experiences
on study groups?
>> So it turned out that study groups
were something that we hadn't
built into the platform originally,
it's something that we will do soon.
But it grew organically. So people
basically, without even being suggested
to do that, ended up constructing
study groups on the Q&A forums.
So they said that, we have a study group
in London, who wants to join us?
We have an, a, a study group of, of Arab
speakers or Hispanics or different
types of groupings depending on, you know,
geography or language or, or
sometimes other things.
We have, in one class, a global
study group, which is specifically
people who are looking
to connect to people who are not part
of their local culture and geography.
And so this was really a fun thing for the
students and some of them met physically,
those that had geographical proximity, and
others just communicated in the
virtual space, but this organic growth
was just such a powerful thing for
students that we really quickly
realized that
we needed to build this into the platform.
>> You probably are so busy that
you don't have any time to
think too far in the future, but
I'm going to just sort of see.
Where, what's your dream?
>> Our dream is that anyone
around the world will have
an Internet connection, maybe via
mobile device, which seems to be
the way to go in most developing
countries right now because
of the way the infrastructure is
developed, or not developed until now.
And that people will be able to
learn the things
that they care about. And
some of these will
be things that are pragmatic
and will help them
get a better job and make
more money so they
can support their families.
And some of them will
be just ways to expand one's
understanding and one's imagination
by learning amazing things that
you didn't know about
because I think it's unfortunate
that for most of us
learning ends when we finish high school
or when we finish college and that's
the last time we learn anything. And
wouldn't it be really cool if we had
access to a life-long learning experience
that, where you could come and say,
I think this is a really cool topic
and I'd like to learn more about that.
And you would have access to a really
amazing course
taught by the top scholar in
his or her field
that could teach that.
[MUSIC]